DragonBerryDelivery
===================

Here is a link to a video of this game.  This game was an experiment for me to try out a new game mechanic in which the player must interact with a background element in order to change the dragon’s element.  By doing this, the player will pay more attention to the background, as it adds another element to the puzzle of this game.  For example, the player must touch the volcano to transform into a fire dragon to burn the chicken in order to retrieve the egg.  The egg cannot be obtained by simply staying as a normal green dragon.  I learned how to make sound channels that can loop throughout the game and sound effects that can be tweaked for certain periods of time by either using Flash’s built in audio channel or using Audacity.  The XML file was used like a level editor by tweaking the attributes’ values.  Instead of using the provided keyboard class, I created my own to better understand keyboard input in Flash.  By developing and designing this game, I enforced the lessons taught in my Interactive Digital Media class.  All of this was done as a solo project for a class.  Even the art assets and animations were created by me.  This game project took me approximately two weeks, which was done when I was learning the Flash API for Actionscript 3.0 for the first time.   Because the levels are short, Dragon Berry Delivery is perfect for casual players.  I always wanted to develop a mobile game, so I designed this game initially with considerations of a mobile processor and the screen size.  What may appear to be normal size on a desktop would be too small when ported to the iTouch.  Several tests between exporting the file to the iTouch and fixing it in Flash allowed me to get the right dimensions for all of the game objects and interfaces the player interacts with.   Shape tweens,  frame-by-frame animation, and gradual alpha changes were avoided at all costs, as I found those to put a strain on the processor.  Another interesting thing I found out was that there is no debugger in mobile devices.  If a program crashes in a mobile device, it simply freezes and doesn’t tell you the error.  To my surprise, the game worked even better on the iTouch, as the controls were more smooth.  Instead of the player moving by keyboard controls, the player would move by the his or her’s finger. The mobile version of this game was done outside of class as a personal project.  The world of mobile devices is definitely a place to explore new game mechanics.  This was a very fun experience for me overall.  I hope to expand upon on the game to include a baking component where the player takes the ingredients he or she collected and bakes them to make a cake. Click here to download the game.  This game can be played on a iTouch, iPhone, and iPad by double clicking on the .ipa file, which will place the game app in your iTunes.  Make sure that the game app is synced to your device to see it appear on your app list.  The game can also be played on the PC by running either the .swf or the .html file.
